# OAuth 2.0
Modern Guide - What is OAuth 2.0 and How Does It Work?<br>
https://fusionauth.io/articles/oauth/modern-guide-to-oauth<br>
https://oauth.net/

OAuth is industry standard protocol when it comes to Authorization

Here are the OAuth Grant Types:
- Authorization Code
- PKCE
- Client Credentials
- Device Code
- Refresh Token

## Client Credentials
We already worked with "Client Credentials" when we requested the token string using Postman in previous section.

```html
POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: authorization-server.com
 
grant_type=client_credentials
&client_id=xxxxxxxxxx
&client_secret=xxxxxxxxxx
```

## Authorization Code
The Authorization Code Grant Type is probably the most common of the OAuth 2.0 grant types that you’ll encounter. It is used by both web apps and native apps to get an access token after a user authorizes an app.<br>
So when we login into a web app using credentials which could be validated against Entra ID server, the app typically uses Authorization Code grant flow.

Consider the following flow where a user request an image:<br>
User <===> Web App <=====================> Azure Storage Service Web API <====> Azure Storage Account (For Images)

In all this, consider the presence of Authorization Server which is Microsoft Identity Platform in Azure.<br>
It managers end user info, their access and also issues secure access tokens.<br>

Step 1: The app makes a contact with Authorization Server for an authorization code along with a callback (aka Redirect) URL. The Auth code is viewable in browser.

Step 2: The app send back the auth code to the Auth Server to get the access token

Step 3: The application gets the secure access token. The exchange process happens on the backend and you wont see the access token in browser because of security concerns.

Step 4: The app can now use the access token to make a request from Azure Storage Service Web API to get the image

